mind your decisions I'm presh tall
Walker in square ABCD construct AE and
AF as shown
so that AF bisects angle EAD if B E is
equal to 36 and FD is equal to 64 solve
for the length of a e I received many
emails with similar problem suggestions
and there's also a similar problem on
the YouTube channel maths smart pause if
you'd like to give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
there are many ways to solve the problem
and I'm going to present one method that
involves outside the box thinking I'm
also going to present two methods that
involve inside the box thinking but
let's get started on the method using
outside the box thinking well first
label some of these angles suppose EI f
is equal to theta because AF is an angle
bisector F ad must be equal to theta
next we have right angles in this square
which means a FD is equal to 90 degrees
minus theta then since angle a is a
right angle we have 90 degrees minus 2
theta over here here we have another
right angle at B and this final angle B
ei must be equal to 2 theta so here's
the trick we'll take triangle a B E and
rotate it 90 degrees about a clockwise
this will go outside the box now let's
take a look at this construction first
of all we have a right angle here
because we've rotated a right triangle
next D and B prime will be coincidence
this is the image of B and this is
possible because a B and a D are equal
to each other in a square this is where
point E will go and we'll label that as
a prime now this will be equal to 36
this is B prime B Prime
here we copy over the angle now AE is
equal to AE prime because we've simply
rotated this length next we look at
triangle a Fe prime will calculate that
f AE prime is equal to 90 degrees minus
theta we have two angles of equal
measure and therefore the sides opposite
them will be equal to each other so a e
prime is equal to Fe Prime and now F e
prime must be equal to 64 plus 36 which
is equal to 100
therefore AE prime is also equal to 100
which means AE is equal to 100 and
that's the answer it's a very clever way
using outside the box they
now let's do some inside the box
thinking first we use the same diagram
with the angles now suppose the site of
the triangle is equal to X so if ad is
equal to X then a B is also equal to X
in this triangle we have the tangent of
theta is equal to 64 over X in triangle
a B II we have the tangent of 2 theta is
equal to x over 36 well now use the
tangent double angle formula and
substitute that in now recall tangent of
theta is equal to 64 over X so we can
substitute that into this formula we
then multiply the numerator and
denominator by x squared so we simplify
this fraction a little bit now notice
that the X terms will cancel out and
then we can cross multiply and then
solve for x squared we're not going to
go any further we'll just go with x
squared
the reason is will now look at triangle
a B E and we can calculate a e using the
Gogu theorem
AE squared is equal to x squared plus 36
squared so we substitute in for x
squared and now this particular
expression should be a familiar
expression we can factor this out it'll
be exactly equal to the quantity 64 plus
36 squared so a e squared is equal to
this square we take the square root of
both sides and we get a e is equal to 64
plus 36 which is equal to 100 and once
again we arrive at the same answer but
this time using inside the box thinking
now there's a final way to solve this
problem using al-qasas law of cosines
I'm going to present this method because
it's the way that I solve the problem so
first we'll go ahead and label the
diagram with a side length of X this
means EC will be equal to X minus 36 and
CF will be equal to X minus 64 now
construct EF and examine triangle a EF
will use al-qasas law of cosines and the
side opposite the angle theta
that'll be EF so EF squared is equal to
AE squared + AF squared -
two times AE x AF times the cosine of
theta now in triangle AF D we can
calculate that the cosine of theta is
equal to x over AF if we substitute that
into the formula we can then cancel out
the AF term and what's simplifies to the
following form we can then use the Gogu
theorem to calculate EF squared we can
then calculate a e squared we can then
calculate AF squared so we're going to
substitute these into our first formula
at the top when we do that we get the
following equation this simplifies
tremendously compare these two terms the
x squared and the 36 squared will cancel
out and we'll be left with negative 2
times 36 times X in these two terms the
x squared terms and 64 squared terms
will cancel out and we're left with
negative 2 times 64 times X so our
equation simplifies to the following
form we then factor out negative 2x on
both sides since X is not equal to 0
it's a side length of the square we can
cancel out negative 2x on both sides and
we then get AE is equal to 36 Plus 64
which is exactly equal to 100 and like
magic we've solved the problem once
again I think this is a really neat
problem and I'm sure there are many
other ways to solve it but I hope you
enjoyed a little bit of outside the box
and inside the box thinking thanks for
making mind your decisions one of the
best channels on YouTube
as always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]